Create rule S6496 (#1488)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6496/cfamily/rule.adoc

> Objects of small sizes, i.e., smaller than `2 * sizeof(void*)` bytes, whose types are trivially copyable and trivially copy-constructible should be passed by value.

Reviewer: The objects need to also be trivially-destructible, as the destructor should not cause more work.

Reviewer: Also, for the update to be possible, to function cannot rely on the object identity, for example on the address, I am not sure how quick to implement that would be.

> Passing such objects by value is always more efficient than passing them by reference and comes with the following benefits:

Reviewer: I would remove the always more efficient, say something like in most cases.

Reviewer: On window API there is no SROA for example, so I would make it the last point.

> * No copy-constructor is called (trivial)

Reviewer: If you pass by reference, it is the same.

* Object may be passed using registers (Scalar Replacement Of Aggregates) or may not be passed at all (e.g. for objects of empty types)

> * Aliasing in the call target is eliminated

Reviewer: That is a very good point, and I think it should be first, and provided with some example, like:
`void foo(int& x, const& y) {
   x = 10; // can change value of y
}`

Reviewer: In general, these is very good points and would be understandable for programmer well-versed in C++. However, our products not only access them, so I think that it would be good change them into paragraph, describing, what are the problems with:
* aliasing (as above), and with globals.
* passing by reference is like passing a pointer, so you need to load pointer and then load memory

* No extra indirection required to access from the callee

> 

Reviewer: There is no information when the issue is raised.

> Objects of small sizes, i.e., up to `2 * sizeof(void*)` bytes, whose types are trivially copyable, trivially copy-constructible and trivially destructible should be passed by value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Objects of small sizes, whose types are trivially mov. copy constructible and destructible should be passed by value.
```

Reviewer: Trivially copyable is very unstable, and changes definition in each standard.

Reviewer: And I would like to be at the end, as we may change it, and this is detail of impl.

Reviewer 2: If we wish to keep it parameterizable and wish to adjust it later, then yes. I thought this would be more or less fixed according to https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#f16-for-in-parameters-pass-cheaply-copied-types-by-value-and-others-by-reference-to-const.
I'll remove it here.

Reviewer: Yes but we may decide that we do not want to consume two register, and just limit it to `sizeof(void*)` instead of `2 * sizeof(void*)`.

> In most cases, passing small objects by value is more efficient than passing them by reference and comes with the following benefits:

Reviewer: I would suggest not putting the line about the efficiency here, but instead, say passing by value have the following benefits, and mentoring efficinec when applcable.

. Aliasing in the call target is eliminated
+
Aliasing describes the situation in which the same piece of memory can be accessed using different pointer or reference typed variables---so-called _access paths_.
Internally, the compiler treats references like pointers.
Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler to produce efficient code.
Consider the following code example:
+
[source,cpp]
----

> int add(int& x, int &y) {

Reviewer: I would prefer if this example would include const reference, so it would be more relevant to the rule. That would require doing some if, like 
```
if (x == 1000) { 
   y = 9000; 
   return x+ y; // needs to load x again
 }

Reviewer 2: True. Updated it.

  x = 9001;
  y = 1000;
  return x + y;
}
----
Depending on the alias information at the compiler's disposal, the compiler may not be able to verify whether the variables `x` and `y` do *not* alias.
In this case, it must conservatively assume that they do alias, and has to load the value of `x` a second time to safely perform the addition.
This is because the integer value accessible through `x` would have been changed by the store to variable `y`, if these reference typed variables alias.

> Computing precise alias (and points-to) information is an undecidable problem.

Reviewer: I would remove text from here, if you do not alias, you do not need to use optimization. I would just say, that it is impossible to alias by-balue parameter.
This is also a correctness aspect, if you parameter is not const&, you may assume that it will not change.

Thus, in most cases the compiler's alias information is not precise enough to mitigate such additional, potentially unnecessary instructions.

. No extra indirection required to access from the callee
+
Passing a reference typed variable is like passing a pointer typed variable, since the compiler treats references like pointers.
To access memory using a pointer (or reference) hence requires two loads: One load for the pointer and a second load for the memory that resides at the address carried by the pointer typed variable.

. No additional function-call overhead
+
Analogously to reference parameters, creating a copy of a trivially copy-constructible object does not require a call to a constructor (i.e., functional call).

> . Objects may be passed using registers (Scalar Replacement of Aggregates) or may not be passed at all (e.g. for objects of empty types)

Reviewer: I think I would add this to no extra inderection paragraph. Saying something like: the object may not be stored in memory at all an be passed via registered, or skipped if object is empty.

Small objects whose types are trivially copy-constructible and destructible should be passed by value.
Copy constructor and destructor are trivial, if they are not user-provided, the respective type does not declare virtual function members, and these properties hold recursively for all its members and its base class.
In other words, they do not run any code but are only copying bytes.

Passing small objects by value comes with the following benefits:

. Aliasing in the call target is eliminated
+
Aliasing describes the situation in which the same piece of memory can be accessed via different pointer or reference variables.
Internally, the compiler treats references like pointers.

> Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler to produce efficient code.

Reviewer: I would mentoin that, it also may confuse program, that assumed that `y` didn't change. 
For example (not necessary to include) wheny y is used as index in array.

Reviewer 2: Good point. I've added a note on local reasoning.

Small objects whose types are trivially copy-constructible and destructible should be passed by value.

> Copy constructor and destructor are trivial, if they are not user-provided, the respective type does not declare virtual function members, and these properties hold recursively for all its members and its base class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Copy constructor and destructor are trivial if they are not user-provided, the respective type does not declare virtual function members, and these properties hold recursively for all its members and its base class.
```

Or maybe a bulleted list?

> In other words, they do not run any code but are only copying bytes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In other words, they do not run any code and are only copying bytes.
```

Passing small objects by value comes with the following benefits:

> . Aliasing in the call target is eliminated

Reviewer 3: I don't understand the meaning of "in the call target" here.

+

> Aliasing describes the situation in which the same piece of memory can be accessed via different pointer or reference variables.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Aliasing describes the situation in which the same piece of memory can be accessed via a different pointer or reference variables.
```

> Internally, the compiler treats references like pointers.
> Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler to produce efficient code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Internally, the compiler treats references like pointers.
Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler from producing efficient code.
```

> Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler from producing efficient code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Aliasing oftentimes prevents the compiler from producing efficient code.
```

> Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler from producing efficient code.

Reviewer 3: I think we should say that the potential for aliasing is the problem, even if the function is never called in a context where aliasing actually happens.

Consider the following code example:
+
[source,cpp]
----
int add(int& x, const int& y) {
  if (y == 42) {
    x = 9001; // can potentially change y's value, if x and y alias
  }
  return x + y; // need to load y again
}
----

> Not only needs the compiler to generate a second load for `y`, but it is also not immediately clear that variable `y` may be changed by the store to `x`, which breaks local reasoning and thus may confuse programmers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The compiler needs to generate a second load for `y`. It is also not immediately clear that the variable `y` may be changed by the store to `x`, which breaks local reasoning and thus may confuse programmers.
```

> Parameters passed by value cannot alias with any pointer/reference parameter of global variable.

Reviewer: Some transition here would be good, like ending it with "and they eliminate all above problems", or something in this direction.

> Parameters passed by value cannot alias with any pointer/reference parameter or global variable and therefore, eliminate the aforementioned problems.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Parameters passed by value cannot alias with any pointer/reference parameter or global variable and, therefore, eliminate the aforementioned problems.
```

> Parameters passed by value cannot alias with any pointer/reference parameter or global variable and, therefore, eliminate the aforementioned problems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Parameters passed by value cannot alias with any pointer/reference parameter or global variable and, therefore, eliminate this problem.
```

> . No extra indirection required to access from the callee

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. No extra indirection is required to access the data
```

+
Passing a reference typed variable is like passing a pointer typed variable, since the compiler treats references like pointers.

> To access memory using a reference (or pointer) hence requires two loads: One load for the pointer and a second load for the memory that resides at the address carried by the pointer typed variable.

Reviewer: Two loads are not ncessary true, if you pass the pointer in register. I would say, it requires a load.

> Passing a reference typed variable is like passing a pointer typed variable, since the compiler treats references like pointers.
> To access memory using a reference (or pointer) hence incurs an additional indirection.
> Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers (Scalar Replacement of Aggregates), instead or they are not passed at all, if the object is empty. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Passing a reference typed variable is like passing a pointer-typed variable since the compiler treats references like pointers.
To access memory using a reference (or pointer) hence incurs an additional indirection.
Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers (Scalar Replacement of Aggregates) instead, or they are not passed at all if the object is empty. 
```

> Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers (Scalar Replacement of Aggregates) instead, or they are not passed at all, if the object is empty.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers instead, or not passed at all if the object is empty.
```
I think the term `Scalar Replacement of Aggregates` is not universally known, and thus does not increase the clarity of the sentence.

> . No additional function-call overhead

Reviewer 3: It's not really a benefit, it's more the absence of an issue...

+
Creating a copy of a trivially copy-constructible object does not require a call to a constructor (i.e., functional call) and hence has similar costs to copying one or only very few pointer/reference parameters.

> This rule raises an issue when a small object (up to `2 * sizeof(void*)` bytes) with trivial copy operations and a trivial destructor is passed by reference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This rule raises an issue when a small object (up to `2 * sizeof(void*)` bytes) with trivial copy operations and a trivial destructor is passed by reference to const.
```

== Noncompliant Code Example

[source,cpp]
----
struct Point {
  int x;
  int y;
};

void f1(const int& i); // Noncompliant, pass by value is more efficient
void f2(const double& d); // Noncompliant, pass by value is more efficient
void f3(const Point& p); // Noncompliant, pass by value is more efficient
void add(int& x, const int& y) {
  // Noncompliant, even worse: compiler has to assume that the memory referred
  // to by y can change, too, since x and y could alias and effectively refer
  // to the same memory location.
  if (y == 42) {
    x = 9001;
  }
  return x + y;
}
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,cpp]
----
struct Point {
  int x;
  int y;
};

void f1(int i);
void f2(double d);
void f3(Point p);
// Compliant, pass by reference to const; pass by value is potentially expensive
void f4(const std::string &s);
void add(int& x, int y) {
  if (y == 42) {
    x = 9001;
  }
  return x + y;
}
----

> == See

Reviewer 3: I think we should add a link to https://sonarsource.github.io/rspec/#/rspec/S1238/cfamily

> == See

Reviewer 3: In S1238, I wrote about this rule:

> Too many issues. We decided to use a higher threshold and never ask to pass by value something that is passed by const &, even if small:
> 
> - The user of a type does not always have to know that it is small
> - The expected performance gain is much smaller than the one in the other direction
> - It’s not possible to ignore an issue for a whole type, we have to ignore it function per function, which does not seem reasonable
> 
> We can create another rule, in the other direction, with lower priority and out or SonarWay for people who want to hunt for the extra speed gain

I think points 1 & 3 are still valid. How do you plan to tackle them?

Objects of small sizes, i.e., up to `2 * sizeof(void*)` bytes, whose types are trivially copy-constructible and destructible should be passed by value.

> Copy constructor and destructor are trivial, if they are not user-provided, the respective type does not declare virtual function members, and these properties hold recursively for all its members and its base class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy constructor and destructor are trivial, if they are not user-provided, the respective type does not declare virtual function members, and these properties hold recursively for all its members and its base class. In other words, they do not run any code except copying bytes.
```

Passing small objects by value comes with the following benefits:

. Aliasing in the call target is eliminated
+
Aliasing describes the situation in which the same piece of memory can be accessed via different pointer or reference variables.
Internally, the compiler treats references like pointers.
Aliasing, however, oftentimes hinders the compiler to produce efficient code.
Consider the following code example:
+
[source,cpp]
----
int add(int& x, const int& y) {
  if (y == 42) {
    x = 9001; // can potentially change y's value, if x and y alias
  }
  return x + y; // need to load y again
}
----

> Parameters passed by value cannot alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters passed by value cannot be aliased by any poiner/reference parameter or global variable.
```

. No extra indirection required to access from the callee
+
Passing a reference typed variable is like passing a pointer typed variable, since the compiler treats references like pointers.
To access memory using a reference (or pointer) hence requires two loads: One load for the pointer and a second load for the memory that resides at the address carried by the pointer typed variable.
Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers, instead or they are not passed at all, if the object is empty. 

> Small objects of non-scalar types (as identified by this rule) enable many compilers to apply Scalar Replacement of Aggregates (SRA).

Reviewer: I think the last two sentence may now be removed.

Reviewer: You could mentoin SRoA in the parnetesis, like (referred as Scalar Replecment of Aggregates)

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify on which two sentence you wish to have removed here? I though the info on SRA should be removed.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, got confused. Now I got it.

Reviewer: I ment you could mentoin SRoA in previous sentence :
Objects passed by value may not even be stored in memory at all and can be passed via registers, instead or they are not passed at all, if the object is empty.
